#summary Cepstral Plugin Integration Guide.
#labels Id-3

= How to Build and Use Cepstral Plugin with UniMRCP Server. =
== Contents ==

    # Overview
    # Requirements
    # Build
       * GNU Build (Linux and other Unix variants)
       * VS2005 Build (Windows XP, Vista, ...)
    # Configuration

= Details =

==1. Overview ==
This guide describes how to use Cepstral Swift TTS with UniMRCP server. It assumes you are already familiar with [InstallationGuide installation] and [ConfigurationGuide configuration] tips of UniMRCP server.
UniMRCP server provides plugin interface to integrate 3-rd party TTS and ASR engines. Plugin called mrcpcepstral implements the MRCP resource engine interface using Cepstral Swift TTS engine.

==2. Requirements ==
Cepstral Swift SDK and Voices must be installed.

See the snip from the post made by Cepstral on how to obtain the SDK.
{{{
Cepstral is interested in helping this community and would like to see
more MRCP based implementations.  We will help you with the SDK.
Please visit our Support page and identify yourself as a UniMRCP
developer, the nature of your project, and we'll send you the SDK.
(http://support.cepstral.com/)
}}}

==3. Build ==
===GNU Build (Linux and other Unix variants)===
====Configure option====
   To explicitly specify where to look for the Cepstral Swift library use the "--with-swift=" option:
    $ ./configure --with-swift=/opt/swift

===VS2005 Build (Windows XP, Vista, ...)===
====One-time pre-build preparation====
  * To specify where to look for the Swift library use cepstral.vsprops located in build/vsprops:
{{{
       <UserMacro
           Name="CepstralSDKDir"
           Value="C:\Program Files\Cepstral\sdk"
       />
}}}

Open unimrcp.sln solution file, enable mrcpcepstral project build from Build -> Configuration Menu and build the solution.

==4. Configuration ==
Specify mrcpcepstral as a plugin in unimrcpserver.xml as follows:
{{{
    <plugin>
      <engine name="Cepstral-Swift-1" class="mrcpcepstral"/>
    </plugin>
}}}