#summary Frequently asked questions about UniMRCP project.
#labels Phase-Support,Id-21,Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="4"/>
====  What is UniMRCP? ====
UniMRCP is an open source cross-platform implementation of Media Resource Control Protocol (MRCP).

====  What version of MRCP does project support? ====
UniMRCP supports both MRCPv1 and MRCPv2.

====  What platforms (operating systems) does UniMRCP run on? ====
UniMRCP has been actively developed and tested on Windows (XP, Vista) and Linux distributions (Fedora, CentOS).
See [SupportedPlatforms Supported Platforms] for more info.

====  What license is UniMRCP released under? Can I use UniMRCP in closed source, commercial projects? ====
UniMRCP is released under Apache 2.0 license. Open as well as closed source, commercial UniMRCP integrated solutions may exist.

====  I'm very new to UniMRCP. Where should I start? ====
Read the [InstallationGuide Installation Guide] first.

====  I'm looking for MRCP client to integrate into my application. What should I use? ====
In brief, you should use libunimrclient library. Also check demo unimrcpclient application, which is based on libunimrcpclient library. Read the [ClientIntegrationGuide Client Integration Guide] for the detailed instructions.

====  I'm looking for MRCP server for my ASR/TTS engine. What should I do? ====
In brief, you should write another plugin for unimrcpserver using your ASR/TTS engine. There are number of plugins available in the source tree. Read the [PluginImplementationGuide Plugin Implementation Guide] for the detailed instructions.

====  I've got some ideas around the project. Where can I discuss them? ====
Use the [http://groups.google.com/group/unimrcp Discussion Group] for anything UniMRCP related.

====  I've got some issues using the project. What should I do? ====
Feel free to raise issues using the [http://code.google.com/p/unimrcp/issues/ Issue Tracker].

====  How can I contribute to the project? ====
Read the [ContributionGuide Contribution Guide].

====  Should my organization become a sponsor of UniMRCP? ====
If your organization is considering a long term use of UniMRCP, hopefully it will be smart enough to become a sponsor and invest in the project’s infrastructure. Learn more what project sponsorship assumes and what the benefits of sponsorship are.
http://www.unimrcp.org/sponsorship

====  Should my organization become a partner of UniMRCP? ====
UniMRCP welcomes technology related vendors and integrators to become a partner. Learn more about partnership categories.
http://www.unimrcp.org/partnership