#summary How to install UniMRCP project.
#labels Featured,Id-01,Phase-Deploy

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />
<br>
=1. Install From Source =
==1.1. Obtain Source ==
===Download Source Tarball ===
Use the link below to download one of the available source tarballs
    http://code.google.com/p/unimrcp/downloads/

===Checkout Source via SVN ===
Use the command below to anonymously checkout the latest source code
    svn checkout http://unimrcp.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ unimrcp

==1.2. Build Source ==
===Requirements ===
UniMRCP depends on a number of third party tools and libraries, which are required and must be installed first.

The easiest and recommended way is to install an appropriate dependency package from the download area, which contains APR, APR-Util and Sofia-SIP libraries prepackaged for UniMRCP use.
    http://code.google.com/p/unimrcp/downloads/

Alternatively, the original packages of APR, APR-Util and Sofia-SIP libraries and patches for them can be downloaded from
    http://www.unimrcp.org/dependencies/

References:
  * Apache Portable Runtime [>=1.2.x] (http://apr.apache.org/). Whenever you want to build any part of UniMRCP, you need the Apache Portable Runtime (APR) and the APR Utility (APR-util) libraries.

  * Sofia-SIP [>=1.12.6] (http://sofia-sip.sourceforge.net/). Sofia-SIP library is used to implement MRCPv2 specification compliant SIP signaling. Sofia-SIP is an open-source SIP User-Agent library, compliant with the IETF RFC3261 specification.



===GNU Build (Linux and other Unix variants)===
====Additional requirements====
  * autoconf 2.57 or newer
  * automake
  * libtool 1.4 or newer
  * gcc
  * pkg-config

====Build procedure====
{{{
$ ./bootstrap
$ ./configure
$ make
$ make install
}}}

====Installed directory layout====
By default project will be installed in /usr/local/unimrcp directory with the following layout
{{{
bin      - binaries (unimrcpserver, unimrcpclient)
conf     - configuration files
data     - data files
include  - header files
lib      - shared (convenient) libraries
log      - log files
plugin   - run-time loadable modules
}}}

====Configure options====
  * To explicitly specify where to look for the APR and APR-util libraries use the "--with-apr=" and "--with-apr-util=" options:
{{{
    $ ./configure --with-apr=/usr/local/apr --with-apr-util=/usr/local/apr
}}}
  * To explicitly specify where to look for the Sofia-SIP library use the "--with-sofia-sip=" option:
{{{
    $ ./configure --with-sofia-sip=/usr/local/sofia-sip
}}}
  * To cross-compile for 64-bit platform use:
{{{
    CFLAGS=-m64 CXXFLAGS=-m64 LDFLAGS=-m64 ./configure
}}}

  * To cross-compile for 32-bit platform use:
{{{
    CFLAGS=-m32 CXXFLAGS=-m32 LDFLAGS=-m32 ./configure
}}}

====Makefile rules====
  * To install the default configuration use:
{{{
    $ cd conf
    $ make def-conf
}}}
  * To install the default data use:
{{{
    $ cd data
    $ make def-data
}}}

  * To generate doxygen documentation from the source use:
{{{
    $ make dox
}}}


===VS2005 Build (Windows XP, Vista, ...)===
====Additional requirements====
  * Microsoft Visual Studio 2005

====One-time pre-build preparation====
  * To specify where to look for the APR and APR-util libraries use apr.vsprops located in build/vsprops:
{{{
	<UserMacro
		Name="AprDir"
		Value="$(SolutionDir)libs\apr"
	/>
	<UserMacro
		Name="AprUtilDir"
		Value="$(SolutionDir)libs\apr-util"
	/>
}}}
  * To specify where to look for the Sofia-SIP library use sofiasip.vsprops located in build/vsprops:
{{{
	<UserMacro
		Name="SofiaDir"
		Value="$(SolutionDir)libs\sofia-sip"
	/>
}}}

====Build procedure====
  * open unimrcp.sln solution file 
  * choose an appropriate solution platform (Build -> Configuration Manager) either win32 or x64
  * choose an appropriate solution configuration (Build -> Configuration Manager) either Debug or Release
  * build the solution (Build -> Build Solution).

====One-time pre-run preparation====
Build prepare.vcproj utility project (right click on tools -> prebuild in Solution Explorer and select Build from context menu).
This is a one-time output directory preparation. It copies all the required APR and SofiaSIP libraries and the default configuration and data to the output directory.

====Output directory layout====
{{{
bin      - binaries (unimrcpserver, unimrcpclient) and all the required dlls
conf     - configuration files
data     - data files
lib      - libraries
log      - log files
plugin   - run-time loadable modules
}}}

<br>
<br>
=2. Install Binary Package =
==Windows Installer (Innosetup)==
===Download Installer ===
Use the link below to download one of the available Windows installers
    http://code.google.com/p/unimrcp/downloads/list
===Run Installer ===
There are a number of options to install
  * UniMRCP server
    * Recorder plugin    
    * Demo synthesizer plugin    
    * Demo recognizer plugin
  * UniMRCP client
If UniMRCP server option is enabled the installer also registers UniMRCP server as a Windows service, which can be started on demand.

<br>
<br>
=3. Run Demo Client and Server =
Test your installation running UniMRCP client and server applications from the same host using the configuration installed by default.
  * Change dir (cd) to the directory, where UniMRCP binaries are installed
  * Run unimrcpclient and unimrcpserver
  * Input 'help' from the console of unimrcpclient application for usage
  * Input 'run synth' to run a demo synthesizer scenario
  * Input 'run recog' to run a demo recognizer scenario
  * Input 'run rec' to run a demo recorder scenario
  * Input 'run dtmf' to run a demo DTMF recognition scenario
  * Check the console output and find the results such as synthesized speech and recorded utterance in the data directory