#summary How to use UniMRCP server library.
#labels Id-5

<wiki:toc max_depth="1"/>

=1. Overview =
This guide describes how to integrate [http://code.google.com/p/unimrcp/source/browse/#svn/trunk/platforms/libunimrcp-server UniMRCP server library] into 3-rd party applications to provide MRCP v1/v2 server capabilities. Perhaps stand alone UniMRCP server application built on top of UniMRCP server library can be used instead.
<br>
<br>
=2. Server Stack Initialization =
== Start server stack processing ==
Sample code below shows one-time creation of server stack instance.
{{{
#include "unimrcp_server.h"

/* create default directory layout relative to root directory path */
apt_dir_layout_t *dir_layout = apt_default_dir_layout_create(root_dir_path,pool);
/* start server stack processing */
mrcp_server_t *server = unimrcp_server_start(dir_layout);
}}}
<br>
<br>
=3. Server Stack Deinitialization =
== Shutdown server stack processing ==
{{{
/* shutdown server stack processing */
unimrcp_server_shutdown(server);
}}}
<br>
<br>
=4. References =
  * Fully functional unimrcpserver application built on top of libunimrcpserver library can be found in the [http://code.google.com/p/unimrcp/source/browse/#svn/trunk/platforms/unimrcp-server platforms/unimrcp-server] directory of the source tree.
  * UML based [http://unimrcp.webhosting-for-free.com/ea/index.htm design concepts] include hierarchy, activity and sequence diagrams of the server stack.
<br>
<br>
=5. F.A.Q. =
  * I need MRCP server for my ASR/TTS engine. Should I write another application based on libunimrcpserver library?
    No, you shouldn't. You just need to implement another plugin for unimrcpserver application using your ASR/TTS engine. See [PluginImplementationGuide plugin implementation guide] for more info.
  * When would I need to write another application based on libunimrcpserver library taking into account that unimrcpserver application already exists?
    Suppose you have already implemented a media server application and want to enhance it with MRCP server capabilities. In this case you can easily integrate libunimrcpserver library into your media server.